Information from Sean about writing the paper:

Canonical ML Paper Structure
Abstract (TL;DR of paper):
X: What are we trying to do and why is it relevant?
Y: Why is this hard?
Z: How do we solve it (i.e. our contribution!)
1: How do we verify that we solved it:
1a) Experiments and results
1b) Theory

Introduction (Longer version of the Abstract, i.e. of the entire paper):
X: What are we trying to do and why is it relevant?
Y: Why is this hard?
Z: How do we solve it (i.e. our contribution!)
1: How do we verify that we solved it:
1a) Experiments and results, including comparison to prior SOTA if applicable
1b) Theory
	2: New trend: specifically list your contributions as bullet points (credits to Brendan)
Extra space? Future work!
Extra points for having Figure 1 on the first page

Related Work:
Academic siblings of our work, i.e. alternative attempts in literature at trying to solve the same problem.
Goal is to “Compare and contrast” - how does their approach differ in either assumptions or method? If their method is applicable to our Problem Setting I expect a comparison in the experimental section. If not, there needs to be a clear statement why a given method is not applicable.
Note: Just describing what another paper is doing is not enough. We need to compare and contrast.

Background:
Academic Ancestors of our work, i.e. all concepts and prior work that are required for understanding our method.
Usually includes a subsection, Problem Setting, which formally introduces the problem setting and notation (Formalism) for our method. Highlights any specific assumptions that are made that are unusual.
Note: If our paper introduces a novel problem setting as part of its contributions, it’s best to have a separate Section.

[Problem Setting as separate section – only if the Problem Setting is novel, i.e. a contribution]

Method:
What we do. Why we do it. All described using the general Formalism introduced in the Problem Setting and building on top of the concepts / foundations introduced in Background.

Experimental Setup:
How do we test that our stuff works? Introduces a specific instantiation of the Problem Setting and specific implementation details of our Method for this Problem Setting.

Results and Discussion:
Shows the results of running Method on our problem described in Experimental Setup. Compares to baselines mentioned in Related Work. Includes statistics and confidence intervals. Includes statements on hyperparameters and other potential issues of fairness. Includes ablation studies to show that specific parts of the method are relevant. Discusses limitations of the method.

Conclusion:
We did it. This paper rocks and you are lucky to have read it (i.e. brief recap of the entire paper). Also, we’ll do all these other amazing things in the future.
To keep going with the analogy, you can think of future work as (potential) academic offspring (credits to James).